early huge portion of these study tips
you'll get from professors and other
people who want you to be better in
school and maybe that you'll find here
on YouTube are really basic they'll tell
you to sit up front in class scan your
textbooks instead of reading every
single chapter bring your cat to class
to reduce stress and so you get to meet
the Nights folks at Animal Control and
these tips you know while they're
they're good they're really really
useful they are basic and maybe you're
like me you're a classical detail driven
nerd like when I play fighting games I
want to learn on the frame data and
every single move set and all the
matchups instead of just playing the
game and having fun quote unquote so
applying to study I'm the same way and I
want to find really advanced tips ways
to sort of hack my learning things that
usually don't come up when you get your
basic study tips so to that end maybe
you're like me and want to get some
advanced study tips and I am happy to
oblige and in this video I'm going to
give you eight of those advanced study
tips so let's get started
so the first tip is to use the Corson
technique when asking professors for
help now Dale Corson was the eighth
president of Cornell University yes the
same Cornell University that spawned the
famous Cornell note-taking system and he
was also a chemistry professor he said
that students in chemistry and other
science and math programs often have to
really work to crack problems one
sentence at a time as they go through
their textbooks or problem sets
but sometimes eventually you get to a
point where you just can't crack the
problem on your own and you need to ask
for help right so you go to your
professor and what Dale Corson wants you
to think about before you actually talk
to a professor is pause and ask yourself
what is it that I don't understand like
truly what is it that I don't understand
and what he wants you to get away from
is this thing that a lot of students do
where they go to their professor and
with a general wave of the hand as he
says they say I don't understand what
I'm looking at like this is just
confusing to me I don't get it and what
he wants you to do is avoid that rather
pick apart the problem one sentence at a
time and figure out the exact point at
which you don't get what's going on so
right here I understand this this
process makes sense to me but here is
where I'm getting a little shaky and I
just don't get this after that I'm cool
when you can pinpoint that you're going
to impress your
professor with your preparation and the
amount of effort you put into the
problem so you get some brownie points
there but you're also working to
practice the art of recognizing
confusion and in following it down to
its actual source and this will help you
immensely in all of your learning going
forward tip number two is to learn facts
quickly with a technique called spaced
repetition
now spaced repetition is the art of
studying things at increasingly bigger
and bigger intervals of time and it's a
very efficient way to study but it's
also it takes advantage of the way your
brain works and basically spaced
repetition is a system where you'll
study something and if you know that
individual fact very well you will not
see it for quite a while but the fact
that you don't know well you're going to
see them more and more frequently and
the way that this works on a brain level
is that you are trying to recall
information you're forcing your brain to
pull it out at the closest time possible
to when you are about to forget it so
your brain actually has to work as hard
as it possibly can to recall this
information and it encodes it better so
it's more efficient and you can actually
learn a lot faster now the best way to
take advantage of this is to use an SRS
or space repetition software to do your
studying for you instead of using index
cards or something now when I was
studying Japanese and I will be doing
this again soon I used one called
Hwanhee Connie that was very very
efficient and helped me learn hundreds
of kanji and beg Japanese vocab words
but there is actually a free and
generalized one called Anki and you can
find it on key SRS dotnet where you can
actually create your own card sets for
any type of data that you think you
would want to study with SRS or you can
actually find shared card decks from
people who have already made things so
definitely check that out
I think the preparation aspect of making
your own card decks is very useful but
simply going through and studying them
using spaced repetition is usually going
to be more efficient than using just
typical linear flashcard study methods
on paper
all right tip number three and we are
getting a little bit more advanced here
so this one is to try out the method of
loci for memorization the method of loci
goes back to the Greek and Roman times
and it is a memorization
rather that has been used by memory
champs for a long time and it
essentially takes advantage of your
brains ability to remember spatial
information very well it's all about
visualization and the classic way to do
it is to associate certain sets of the
thing the set of data you're trying to
memorize certain groups of that with
different rooms of a house so let me
give you an example this is the kanji
for King in Japanese and the
pronunciation the way that you say king
in Japanese is all and O is kind of a
really simple pronunciation it doesn't
really lend itself to well to mnemonics
which is a shame because mnemonics is a
great way to learn kanji now what if I
wanted to adapt the method of loci to
learning this kanji along with lots of
others what is a king sit on a throne
alright so we could say the toilet and I
am not averse to using five-year-old
humor here and what do you say when you
smell the toilet oh yeah work with me
here also the kanji for King kind of
looks like a towel rack so I could
associate King with the bathroom in a
house and if I really wanted to make
this study technique useful for me I
would go into the bathroom and I would
put up flashcards on the walls and then
I'd walk through my house and study this
now the method of loci is kind of
difficult or low-key its kind of
difficult to use it's a sort of an
advanced technique and usually you're
going to be better off with SRS or
mnemonics if you have a smaller set of
data but if you've got a lot to work
with and nothing else has worked for you
it's something that you can try tip
number four is to hack a crazy ax so a
Krysia is a term that has been written
about for centuries and it goes back to
Plato and it's essentially a lack of
command over oneself and there's another
even more complex term called picot
economics which talks about this
hyperbolic discounting that we do
essentially we discount the value of a
task the more it is delayed the more the
reward is pushed off into the future
which in in short means that we tend to
procrastinate and do sort of fun things
that don't really align with our values
in the short term and we avoid doing
things that really do line up with our
values because the reward is delayed so
the way you can hack a crazy or sort of
avoid becoming a victim to it is twofold
one
use a commitment device bind yourself to
getting your task done on time and the
way I do this is by using a app called
beeminder
which I've talked about before I
absolutely love bee minder and I've been
using it to ensure that I publish three
things a week for quite a while now and
if you look at my graph here which I'll
throw up you can see that I have
actually been publishing much much much
more frequently than I was before and
it's largely because I use a commitment
device to bind myself to do this
now another way that you can sort of
hack equation the second part of the
fold is to add a shorter term reward to
completing a task in the classic way
you've probably seen this image before
is to put gummy bears on your textbook
and as you read paragraphs you allow
yourself to eat them but you can do all
sorts of other things let yourself watch
an episode of Game of Thrones once you
finish an assignment or maybe use it to
like habitrpg and give yourself some
experience and goal when you finish the
study problem set or something just find
a way to make sure that the only reward
isn't that far off delayed one that
causes a Croatia alright tip number five
is to improve the Pomodoro Technique and
you may have heard of the Pomodoro
Technique everyone talks about it but in
case you haven't it's simply a technique
where you set a timer for about 25
minutes classically and then you work
only on one task during that 25-minute
session and I think a lot of people do
this and it's very useful but there are
some areas for improvement that I don't
think a lot of people take advantage of
so let me just wrap it fire give them to
you so number one and I've talked about
how much I'm a fan of the beeminder
app the beeminder blog is also a good
resource for productivity techniques and
experiments and one of the things that
they talk about is this thing they do
called talks well a talk is essentially
Pomodoro session except for they use
about 45 minutes and then take 15 minute
breaks instead of the classic 25-minute
5 minute break structure so the tip here
is to experiment with the time intervals
don't just set yourself to 25 minutes
and assume that that's the only
potential interval that you could study
at find what works for you and the other
one is to put a piece of paper next to
you during your Pomodoro session and
whenever anything comes up it distracts
you maybe a phone call or the urge to
check Facebook or something right
down now this lets you do two things one
you can remember what the distraction
was and if it happened to be something
urgent you can take care of it during
your break time but too as you continue
to do lots of Pomodoro sessions over
months and months you start to see what
are the common problem points what comes
up a lot that distracts you and then you
can take steps to prevent these things
so maybe if it's your phone you forget
to put it in do not disturb mode well
you can do that now if it's a certain
website that you really want to visit
because it's just so distracting and
draws you in then you can use an
extension like stay focused on Chrome to
block it during your study sessions very
useful stuff tip number six is when
learning new concepts use both focused
and diffused thinking now this is a
concept that I learned about in a book
called thinking in numbers and look at
this guy magnus carlsen he was he is
currently the number one chess player in
the world but back in 2004 when he was
just 13 years old he played Garry
Kasparov who was considered the best
chess player in the world a couple of
decades ago and who was often considered
to be the best chess player of all time
he played Garry to a draw and look at
what he does from these screenshots here
during the match he actually gets up and
walks around looks at other tables and
what he's doing what the author of this
book has pointed out is he's using
diffuse thinking so focus thinking
really takes advantage of your
prefrontal cortex to focus on one
specific set of data one specific
problem and it really concentrates on
that one thing but it sort of doesn't
let the rest of your brain become
activated and a lot of ideas come from
different nodes of your brain connecting
different completely unrelated ideas in
new different ways and that's the
diffuse mode of thinking so when you're
learning something new you want to use
diffuse thinking so you can sort of grok
it you can sort of tie it to other nodes
in your brain and understand it if you
only try to focus on the problem and do
nothing else you're going to have a lot
harder time solving the problem now
focus thinking is very very good for
problems you already understand for
processes that you've gone through
before and that's why you want to use
these two modes of thinking in
combination now tip number seven and
I've talked about this before in terms
of textbooks is to gauge your classes
and the specific area I want you to
think about here is gauge the speed at
which your professor moves and at which
you're able to understand so if your
professor tends to go too fast and you
can't really understand everything he's
presenting maybe he writes too fast and
you can't take notes fast enough or he
just moves through the material too fast
for you to really understand it and give
it time to process in your brain then
you want to take some steps to mitigate
that problem and one thing you could do
is read through the chapter before a
lecture maybe if you have some material
that outlines what's going to begin the
lecture you can sort of use that to look
at the most relevant parts of the
textbook and sort of prime your brain
for the lecture one other thing you can
do if the class paced is just too fast
and I can't really emphasize this enough
is to simply ask your professor for help
or ask questions in the middle of class
professors are there to help you and you
should take advantage of that and my
eighth and final tip is to start your
problem sets alone so when I was a
sophomore I had a statistics class and I
actually had a partner and she would
come over to my dorm basically every
time we had a homework assignment to do
and we would do it together and I now
realize that this isn't really the best
strategy now I got a pretty good grade
in the class anyway but going forward I
wouldn't do this again and here's the
reason why when you do a problem set
with a partner you're kind of robbing
yourself the opportunity to really
pinpoint gaps in your understanding
because two people going at the same
problem at the same time if one person
is able to do the entire thing and the
other person can sort of kind of get
where where the first person is coming
from so if you don't really understand a
problem or maybe there's one tiny little
section that you wouldn't have gotten
but your partner does you're gonna latch
on to their answer you're going to say
yeah I sort of get that and you're going
to move on but if you do it alone then
you're going to be able to pinpoint
those areas of confusion and Shore them
up before you get into a group and
finish the assignment so start them
alone so those are my eight advanced
study tips and I know this video is a
bit longer than normal but if you've got
any questions about these and want to
learn more about any specific ones then
be sure to leave a comment below and let
me know otherwise I will see you in the
next video
hey guys thanks so much for watching my
video on advance study tips now if you
want to get more study tips every single
week and other tips on being an awesome
college student then hit that big red
subscribe button right there and you'll
get those videos every single Thursday
also if you want to find a companion
blog post right linked to any resources
for research I did for other things I
mentioned in the video you can click the
orange button right there to find that
you missed my last video there's a clip
of it playing right there and also if
you want to get better grades
I wrote a hundred-plus page book called
10 steps to earning awesome grades while
studying less and I want to give it to
you for free so if you want to get that
book just click the picture of the book
right there lastly if you want to
connect with me or ask questions or
submit new ideas for new videos you can
either follow me on twitter @tomfrankly
or simply leave the comment in the video
below here and I will respond to you in
matter what
[Music]